Program: report.txt
Authors: Roann Yanes

    The program (animate.cpp), from the user's perspective, contains multiple shapes and colors, circular motion, and user control of the display. Upon running the program, the user is given instructions on how to interact with the animation  (in the command window), and the graphics window opens. 
When the graphics window opens, a white stick figure, green grass, and rotating wheel all appear. The animation allows the user to make the stick figure jump over the rolling wheel (by pressing the UP arrow key), allows the user to speed up (by pressing the RIGHT arrow key) or slow down (by pressing the LEFT arrow key) the rotating wheel, and allows the user to change the colors of the stick figure by pressing 'r' (red), 'y' (yellow), 'b' (blue), or 'p'  (purple). The user can also press 's' for a special surprise, which causes little triangles and pentagons to appear in the "sky" (the area above the "grass" and stick figure) and a message that says "KEEP GOING!". If the user wants to quit the program, he/she can press 'q', and the graphics window will close.     

    Internally, the program, from the programmer's perspective, begins by declaring the dimensions of the graphics window, wheel, and stick figure, as well as the coordinates of the wheel and the stick figure. The initial velocities of the stick figure and the wheel are also declared. Then, the "gfx_open" function is used to open the graphics window, and the "instructions" function is called to display the instructions on how to interact with the animation to the user in the command window. A while loop (that runs until the user presses 'q') first clears the graphics window, creates a white stick figure with the "person" function, the green grass with the "ground" function, and the rolling wheel with the "wheel" function. The "person" function makes use of "gfx_line" and "gfx_circle" to draw a stick figure; it also contains a switch case that changes the color (by altering "gfx_color") of the stick figure based on the input of the user. The "ground" function makes use of "gfx_line" and a "for" loop to fill in the space beneath the stick figure. The "wheel" function makes use of the "spokes" function, and the "gfx_circle" function to create a wheel with spokes. The "spokes" function utilizes x- and y-coordinates (and the sin and cosine functions) and "gfx_line" to create spokes in the center of a wheel. In the while loop, the "theta" value in the "spokes" and "wheel" function is changing with the velocity to cause the wheel to "rotate". The wheel's x-coordinate is also being changed (by the velocity) to make the wheel move across the screen. An "if" statement is put in place to ensure that, if the wheel goes off screen, it will return on-screen by resetting its position. Another "if" statement checks to see if the user input any commands (from the keyboard) that correspond to the switch case. The switch case contains cases for when the user presses 'r', 'y', 'b', 'p', 'q', or 's'. In case 'r', the color of the stick figure is changed to red by altering the "gfx_color" function in the "person" function. In case 'p', the color of the stick figure is changed to  purple by altering the "gfx_color" function in the "person" function. In case 'b', the color of the stick figure is changed to blue by altering the "gfx_color" function in the "person" function. In case 'y', the color of the stick figure is changed to yellow by altering the "gfx_color" function in the "person" function. In case 'q', the condition for the while loop is changed to false, and the graphics window closes. In case 's', nested for loops and the "polygon" function is used to create triangles and pentagons in the "sky", and the "gfx_text" function is used to write a message to the user in the "sky". The switch case also contains cases for when the user utilizes the arrow keys to control the stick figure and the wheel. Case 'S' (the right arrow) speeds up the wheel by changing the wheel's velocity by a factor of 0.25 each time the right arrow is pressed. Case 'Q' (the left arrow) slows down the wheel by changing the wheel's velocity by a factor of 0.25 each time the left arrow is pressed. Case 'R' (the up arrow) contains two while loops that alter the vertical velocity of the stick figure to simulate a "jump". The first while loop causes the stick figure's vertical velocity to increase, and the second while loop causes the stick figure's vertical velocity to decrease (by the same amount that it increased) to have it return to the "grass".
     
     In order to evaluate the program for correctness, I ran the animation several times and tested each feature of the program to see if everything was working properly. I made sure that my color-changing feature was working by inputting the necessary commands to use the feature (pressing 'r', 'b', 'y' and 'p'). I also tested the "jump" and "speed up"/"slow down" features by pressing the arrow keys; the movement of the stick figure and the rotation and the movement of the wheel was working smoothly. The "surprise" feature (when the user presses 's') draws triangles and pentagons in the sky and does display the message to the user. The graphics window does close when the user presses 'q' (the quit feature). The program also does not do anything if the user presses a button that does not correspond to one of the features of the program. 
